# LAB: Creating IAM Policies

<br>

### LAB-1: Creating Customer-Managed Identity Based IAM Policy to perform all actions on S3

Hum ek customer-managed policy banayenge jisko ek user ko attach karenge jisse user sabhi s3 buckets par saare actions perform kar sakta hai. Ye ek Identity based IAM policy hai.

**Step-1**: Login to AWS account using admin IAM user and Create a new IAM policy with the name say ```“CustomPolicy-S3-Full-Access”```. Use following JSON to define the policy permissions.

Json:
```
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "Statement1",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "s3:*",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Step-2**: Attach this policy to IAM user that you created earlier (Ben in my case).

Ab user ```Ben``` S3 par saare actions perform kar sakta hai.

<br>
<br>

### LAB-2: Creating an Inline policy to attach with the user Ben (Inline policy to grant EC2 read access to this user).

Ab hum ```Ben``` user ke saath ek Inline policy attach karenge. Isse sirf ```ben``` user hi sabhi EC2 instance ko dekh payega lekin koi aur action perform nhi kar payega.

**Step-1**: Go to IAM User in the left panel and select the user ```Ben```.

**Step-2**: Click on Permissions and in Permission Policies, click on Add Permissions. You will see a dropdown with the name Create Inline Policy, Click on Create Inline Policy.

**Step-3**: There will be two options:
- Visual: Here you can use AWS GUI to create a policy.
- Json: Here you have to write the Json code to create a policy.

You can choose any of the option.

**Step-4**: If you choose the Json option the write the below code in the Policy editor.

Json:
```
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:Describe*"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Step-5**: Give a name to the policy and Click on Create.

Ab user ```ben``` ko ek inline policy assign ho jayegi, jiska matlab hai ki ```ben``` user sirf sabhi ec2 instances ko dekh sakta hai.
